# 2020-10-19 Authentication Panel

## Agenda

* [clarify access token validation PR#83](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/83)
* [Client Registration does not state which entity it's optional for Issue#56](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/56)
* Primer?
* [next week agenda](https://hackmd.io/NttcxtwiQGawjki8yGDTkA)

## Present

* Aaron C
* Justin B
* Matthieu B
* e Pavlik
* Josh C

## Minutes

### [clarify access token validation PR#83](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/83)

* Presented by Pavlik and approved / merged

### [Client Registration does not state which entity it's optional for Issue#56](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/56)

* See https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/56#issuecomment-712191052

### Primer

Pavlik: https://github.com/solid/webid-oidc-spec/blob/master/application-user-workflow.md

Justin: Do we need to have primer right away, and if changes to spec should also update the primer?

Aaron: I think we should have it for 1.0 but don't have to rush it.

Action item - Get an initiative together to work on primer using https://github.com/solid/webid-oidc-spec/blob/master/application-user-workflow.md as a starting point.

### For submission to the spec

- Ensure editor listing is accurate
- Final pass on text
- Get sign-off from panel members
