# 2021-02-22 Authentication Panel

## Meeting
 * Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-authentication

## Present

* C Sarven
* Henry Story
* Elf Pavlik
* TomJ
* Aaron Coburn

## Agenda

* [Adding meeting notes from 2021-01-25](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/122/files) -- (2 minutes)
*  [SolidCG+WICG review/preparation](https://github.com/WICG/WebID/issues/54#issuecomment-779405599) (20 minutes)
*  [PR #125: Http Sig extension for Credentials and DIDs](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/125): 
    *  updates? 
    *  give time for discussion wrap-up / merge by 2021-03-01? Next steps? (15 minutes)
* [Issue 128: OIDC - Document implementations](https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/128) (3 minutes?)
* Solid-OIDC next steps (15 minutes)
* Default branch name (2 minutes)

## Notes

### Meeting Notes

PR of previous notes accepted. 

### SolidCG+WICG 

* [Slides for TPAC 2020 talk](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-archive/2020Oct/att-0010/The_Web_Platform__Privacy_and_Federation_-_TPAC.pdf) on WICG WebID
* [WebID TPAC 2020 Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PMfp2qPW-RY)

We will present WebID, OIDC and learn what their ideas are.
One hour after this call.

Meeting will be on [Feb 22 at 17:00 GMT](https://meet.jit.si/solid-wicg-identity-authentication)

Questions:
* What's the definition of WebID? (Henry)
  * Name collision - next steps (Sarven)
* State of token binding (Aaron)
* Mechanisms in the browser to differentiate between ClientIDs/Relying Party (Aaron)
* bblfish: I would be interested to know if they have looked at [Universal Wallet](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/universal-wallet-interop-spec/) 

### PR 125: HttpSig

[Http Sig Original branch](https://github.com/bblfish/authentication-panel/blob/HttpSig/HttpSignature.md)

Questions: ..
- Elf: who can access and use private key? Can an app have a private key?
  + bblfish: Yes, and App can create its private key and sign messages with it using JS Crypto. 
    Indeed the use delegated credentails to give rights to the App as needed.
- Q proof of possesion - is it not the same as PoP ? 
- Henry: it is probably very similar. I get lost in the complexity of OIDC.
  It might be a reason to specify such a minimal version on which more complex protocols such as OIDC can built, but also on which other protocols using SSI stack can build
- Aaron: re: implementation patterns - good to have a doc on implementation patterns for Solid
- Henry: Agree. But I think adding it to that document would make what is in essence a very simple protocol get lost in very open ended decisions choices. I could start thinking of writing other documents on how to use it.
- CSarven: we should document the discussion on the PR and issues

### Issue 128: OIDC Doc. Implementations

A place to document implementations

### Solid OIDC next steps

Aaron: one should have test suites at some point, 
CSarven: or we should specify what such test suites would test.
Elf: we should get some feedback about how authorization should be handled

### Links related to conversation

Aaron: Some talks about token binding: 
* [2018 talk by Brian Campbell](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m6ssv-MtJDw&ab_channel=Identiverse) the co-author of DPoP
* And hereâ€™s [one from last summer](https://identiverse.gallery.video/detail/videos/standards/video/6185106704001/the-burden-of-proof?autoStart=true):
In between those two talks, you can see that support for Token binding was removed from Chrome (starting in version 70: [Chrome status](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5097603234529280)).
* There is a discussion on the chromium forum about [the removal of token binding](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/blink-dev/c/OkdLUyYmY1E/m/w2ESAeshBgAJ).

### Actions
* Raise questions / feedback to https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/pull/125 (All)
* mv master main branch.. (Aaron)
* Gather implementations: https://github.com/solid/authentication-panel/issues/128 (All)

